---
layout: post
title: Travel
description: "Leaving on a jet plane to D.C."
modified: 2014-04-01
category: code
tags: [travel]
comments: true
<!-- image:
  feature: texture-feature-05.jpg
  credit: Texture Lovers
  creditlink: http://texturelovers.com -->
---
[link to heading 1](@wiki-travel)
# Leaving on a jet plane

### Landed at Living Social for the Rails Girls D.C. installation party!
# <a name="travel"> Heading 1</a>
It's easy to forget your place of birth is a privilege. 

It took me 4.5 hours to get off the plane and downtown, but I was fast-tracked through customs, in fact through U.S. citizens' processing, with my Canadian birth and citizenship. No one else on my plane was redirected. 

Today I have been redirected by a NASA scientist, a roving governor, FedEx and a skateboarder. All in a day, right?

<hr />
I remember my Rails installation.<a name="myinstallation">yo</a>

The day was hot and sticky. Although I'd been told rules had changed since we were interviewed and we couldn't keep equipment on-site, I was told the Coordinator of the program had a laptop for me and it would be no problem to use.

We tried to boot the computer up. It crashed. We tried to boot the computer up again. It crashed again. We tried to boot the computer up again. We got Ubuntu running, then it overheated, crashed, and wouldn't turn on again. Everyone else seemed to be doing something. The Coordinator said, "Oh well. Do you have another computer?" A tight little knot balled up inside me.

It was finally decided I should go back "home" and get my iMac. I had just walked 20 minutes across Ottawa, but the Coordinator snidely remarked, "Well, you would've had to bring it anyway, right?"

I started crying. I started walking. 

I walked 20 minutes home, then dragged my 31.2 lb. iMac across downtown Ottawa from UOttawa campus. It's a walk that, given highway off-ramps and the lay of the streets, forces you directly into crossing a halfway house, youth hostel and full-on homeless shelter, into an extraordinarily sketchy parking lot. It was still littered with all the bottles and syringes from a Canada Day DJ party. I managed to get my $1200 most prized possession from home into the safety of where we were working from.

From then on, installation was a breeze. One of our awesome instructors had designed a VM just for us, which had all the things we needed in it. My iMac powered through the installation no problem.

Still, this is how I lost my Rails virginity.

It wasn't pleasant. I wouldn't wish it on anyone.
<br />
<br />
*<i>Disclaimer: I love my instructors (professionally) very much. They're my go-to people, my mentors. They've gotten me through some tough spots and stayed up til way past closing time to make sure I got past the finish line. No matter what I ask or when, they have an answer. I owe them my entire existence as a dev. Thank you. 

<i>The Coordinator, however, is another story.</i>
<hr />

This is why I am such a firm believer in the Rails Girls model. <a name="rginstallation">Sup</a>

I'll post with more about the model tomorrow, [here], but the basic premise is: programming is fun. Learning to program should be free. Everyone can program.

The Rails Girls D.C. Installation Party was wonderful. We were welcomed through a bright blue door, into the beautiful, tiered open concept Living Social office, down stairs into a warm and comfy exposed brick living room, then down the hall into the main meeting room.

<blockquote> Programming is fun. Learning to program should be free. Everyone can program.</blockquote>

There were sandwiches and drinks and 2 or more Coaches available at each table of 2-3 women participants. 

I had the great honour and privilege to be a Coach tonight and I'm so excited for tomorrow. 

There was a defined agenda, short lightning talks, lots of time to socialize and a completely laid back but organized approach to installing. Coaches were equipped with participants' skill levels and operating systems days before and select Coaches were paired with Windows participants.

No one got left behind. No one was left out. Everyone was welcome. Everyone got installed and got to go home well-fed and had the opportunity to rest before the coding day tomorrow.

I've seen the model on paper, and now I'm seeing it in action. It's everything I hoped for.

More tomorrow!

<hr />
### Rails Girls installation resources: <a name="resources">Dawg</a>
 <a href="http://guides.railsgirls.com/install/">Rails Girls' Guide to Installation Rails</a>

